To add an animation to the sidebar I'll install a new third party library with npm install dash dash
safe and the name of that library is react dash transition dash group.
I explain it in more details in my react A Complete Guide course.
It is simply a library that makes it easy for us to play a little animation if we add an item to the
DOM so to say if we render item for the first time or if we then remove it.
That is where this library helps us.
So let's wait for it to finish installing and now that it is installed.
We can restart our development server with NPM start and use that library here inside draw for that
import something from react transition group and that something is to see us s transition component
so that's a component provided by this third party library.
It's a component you should wrap around this a site element here so see SS transition can be used as
a component in JS X and is wrapped around a site.
Now here we need to configure it.
We need to tell this library when exactly this sidebar becomes visible.
We do this with the M prop on CSX transition and I want to bind this to props show.
So I expect to get a show prop on the side drawer which we don't get at the moment but which we have
to add which in the end is true.
If the sidebar should be visible and false if it should be invisible.
If it should be removed I'll add a timeout which is the duration of the animation and you're all set
up to 200 milliseconds and a class names property important class names not class name class names it's
a special prop except that by this component and this should be slide dash in slash left.
Which in the end is a CSI as animation to find an index C as as you can see it there.
It's a couple of C as is classes with Dash enter dash interactive and so on at the end and these are
special class names which this third party library knows how to use and which it applies in sequence
when it animates the element in or animates it out allows but the least i'll add mount on enter an unmanned
on exit to tell that component at the third party library that the aside component which is inside of
the CEOs s transition component should really be added to the DOM or be removed from the DOM when it
should become visible or invisible.
Otherwise it's just animated out or in and not really removed.
Here I want to have it removed or added depending on its state so now we just have to make sure we use
this show prop properly so to side draw.
We should pass a show prop so back in May navigation all changed to logic when How does side draw is
rendered.
It's not always part of J is X but it's not always visible because now we set that show prop and set
this to draw is open which is true or false and then ends of side draw.
We have the logic to control whether to draw is visible or not.
So if we now safeties and that recompile now we can click this button.
And now you see you have a nice little in and out animation.
When you opened a drawer on desktop mode of course this has no effect.
Dear everything worked before but now we always have a nice working mobile.
You and with that out of the way I'd say this doesn't look too bad.
Now we can go back to more logic related to our core application for example show to places for a chosen
user.
Now one thing I noticed of course that's missing on our sidebar is at the moment when we click on one
of the links it stays open it navigates to the new page but we manually have to close it by clicking
on the background which is not ideal.
Fixing it is easy though in a sidebar or a component on the site we can add on click listener so to
say so does on click prop which is basically supported on any default H html element and then for word
days events so to say or the function we want to call to props on click or put in other words.
We expect that on the sidebar component we get a function passed to the on click prop off the sidebar
component and we then pass that function we get there on to the on click problem the aside element.
So in the place where we use the side door which is the main navigation we now also have to add does
on click prop we're expecting there and there we can point at close draw just like this and I will also
rename my functions here to on draw handler and close draw handler while some added just to be consistent
with the naming I use in the other places of the app where I always named the functions that are called
upon events with a handler at the end.
So with that if we now as safeties and we go back you will see if you click on a drawer it closes but
there for all when we click on one of the links we get navigated there but we also close to draw which
of course is to go.